[stdlib_linalg] Add zeros, ones function. (#478)
fortran-lang/stdlib: doc/specs/stdlib_linalg.md

    !A = reshape([3., 6., 9., 4., 8., 12.], [3,2])
end program demo_outer_product
```

## `zeros/ones` - creates an vector or matrix of `integer` type, given shape and `0/1` value.

### Status

Experimental

### Class

Pure function.

### Description

`zeros/ones` creates an vector or matrix of `integer` type, given shape and `0/1` value.

> 

Reviewer: What is the advantages of these functions over,e.g.,:

```fortran
real, allocatable :: a(:, :)
allocate( a(ndim1, ndim2), source = 0.)
```

Author: Like the `empty` comment (see https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/477#discussion_r680288115), `ones/zeros/ex` can directly participate in the calculation as a function, which is more convenient:
```fortran
A = A + 0.0*zeros(2,2)
---
real :: B(2,2)
B = 0.0
A = A + B
---
real, allocatable :: B(:, :)
allocate(B(2,2), source=0.)
A = A + B
```
They serve `stdlib_linalg`. Compared with `allocate`, they are at the business level, and `allocate` is at the grammar level?

Reviewer 2: Would there be a difference since we declare an automatic array in `zeros` and `ones` rather than an allocatable array? With the former being most likely placed on the stack while the latter is placed on the heap?

It is not unknown that automatic arrays in combination with large array sizes lead to stack overflows, here is an example for testing the difference, `n` might have to be increased a bit to see the effect depending on your setup.

```f90
implicit none
real, allocatable :: array(:)
integer :: n = 6000000

array = ones_heap(n)
print *, size(array)
array = ones_stack(n)
print *, size(array)
contains
   function ones_heap(n) result(array)
      integer, intent(in) :: n
      real, allocatable :: array(:)
      allocate(array(n), source=1.0)
   end function
   function ones_stack(n) result(array)
      integer, intent(in) :: n
      real :: array(n)
      array = 1.0
   end function
end
```

This fails as expected on my machine with Intel Fortran:

```
❯ ulimit -s
8192
❯ ifort test.f90 && ./a.out
     6000000
forrtl: severe (174): SIGSEGV, segmentation fault occurred
Image              PC                Routine            Line        Source             
a.out              0000000000404A8A  Unknown               Unknown  Unknown
libpthread-2.33.s  00007FDEC3495870  Unknown               Unknown  Unknown
a.out              0000000000403A48  Unknown               Unknown  Unknown
a.out              00000000004037A2  Unknown               Unknown  Unknown
libc-2.33.so       00007FDEC32DDB25  __libc_start_main     Unknown  Unknown
a.out              00000000004036AE  Unknown               Unknown  Unknown
❯ ulimit -s unlimited
❯ ifort test.f90 && ./a.out
     6000000
     6000000
```

Note that even as we are assigning the automatic array to a heap allocation, a stack overflow occurs here.

Author: It seems that `ifort`'s implementation of the return value of the `array` type is quite different from that of `gfortran`, and the efficiency is also different. (see https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/pull/477#issuecomment-890441564)

Author: I think this may be to blame for the implementation of the `ifort` compiler?? They seem to be normal `fortran` syntax, whether it is the current implementation or an `allocatable` solution.
I see that [`stdlib_linalg(module):eye(function)`](https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/blob/ce3a106f14afcc01b8d2e48437c94e7c5e7a19a1/src/stdlib_linalg.fypp#L85~L97) also uses `integer :: eye(n)` instead of `integer, allocatable :: eye(:)`.

But unfortunately, the current implementation has a very big efficiency advantage in `gfortran`:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32035096/127761981-8128aae8-d769-43d5-a8bc-df730a1b41af.png)

Reviewer 2: I see, we should discuss the usage of automatic arrays as function results in a separate issue than. From the experience of a couple of my projects, we got almost half of our support requests due to stack overflows from the usage of automatic arrays, therefore I decided to avoid this feature because whenever possible.

### Syntax

For vector:
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):zeros(interface)]](dim)`  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):ones(interface)]](dim)`

For matrix:
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):zeros(interface)]](dim1, dim2)`  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):ones(interface)]](dim1, dim2)`

### Arguments

`dim/dim1`: Shall be an `integer` type.

`dim2`: Shall be an `integer` type.

### Return value

Returns an vector or matrix of `integer` type, given shape and `0/1` value.

### Example

```fortran
program demo
    use stdlib_linalg, only: zeros, ones
    implicit none
    real, allocatable :: A(:,:)
    
    A = zeros(2,2)          !! 0 0 0 0
    A = ones(4,4)           !! 1 1 1 1; 1 1 1 1; 1 1 1 1; 1 1 1 1
    A = 2.0*ones(2,2)       !! 2.00000000       2.00000000       2.00000000       2.00000000

end program demo
```

> ## `ex` - creates an vector or matrix of `integer/logical/real/complex/string_type` type, given shape and `value` value.

Reviewer 2: I think we have an intrinsic which can deal with this already: [spread](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gfortran/SPREAD.html)

Author: My intention is that `zeros` and `ones` cannot directly create the following statement based on exist `Fortran` snytax:
```fortran
real(kind=4, 8, 16) :: x = ones(2, 2)
```
That's why I want to create an `ex` function. I think it serves `stdlib_linalg`, which is simpler. There is indeed a little overlap with the `spread` function.
```Fortran
x = ex(1.0, 2,2) !! Same as 1.0*ones(2,2)
y = ex(1.0d0, 2) !! Same as spread(1.0d0, 1, 2) and 1.0*ones(2)
z = ex(1.0d0, 2,2) !! Not same as spread?
```

Reviewer 2: The equivalent for `ex` for matrices is a combination of `spread` and `reshape`
```
z = reshape(spread(1.0d0, 2*2), [2, 2])
```

`ex` is rather short, how about `expand` instead.

Author: That is cool:
```fortran
z = reshape(spread(1.0d0, 2*2), [2, 2]) !! It is cool, but more complicated
z = expand(1.0d0, 2, 2) !! It is more simpler.
```
Although I always prefer shorter names, I like `expand`, thanks!

    !A = reshape([3., 6., 9., 4., 8., 12.], [3,2])
end program demo_outer_product
```

## `zeros/ones` - Create an vector or matrix of `integer/real/complex` type, given shape and `0/1` value.

### Status

Experimental

### Class

Pure function.

### Description

> `zeros/ones` creates an vector or matrix of `integer/real/complex` type, given shape and `0/1` value.

Reviewer 3: We need to improve an -> a at many places in the PR

### Syntax

For vector:  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):zeros(interface)]](dim)`  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):ones(interface)]](dim)`

For matrix:  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):zeros(interface)]](dim1, dim2)`  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):ones(interface)]](dim1, dim2)`

### Arguments

`dim/dim1`: Shall be an `integer` type.
This is an `intent(in)` argument.

`dim2`: Shall be an `integer` type.
This is an `intent(in)` argument.

#### Note

Because of `huge(integer :: i) == 2147483647`, the dimensional maximum length of array created by the `zeros/ones` function is `2147483647`. 

### Return value

> Returns an `vector` or `matrix` of `integer` type, given shape and `0/1` value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Returns a `vector` or `matrix` of the given shape, filled completely with either `0` or `1` `integer` type values.
```
function doesn't take 0/1 as the input. Name of the function `zeros`/`ones` tells us which value should be used to fill.

Author: Thank you very much 💖, I will correct such writing errors or ambiguities next time.

#### Note

If the array that receives the return value of the `zeros/ones` function is of `real/complex` type, conversion from `integer` type to `real/complex` type will occur.

### Example

```fortran
program demo
    use stdlib_linalg, only: zeros, ones
    implicit none
    real, allocatable :: A(:,:)
    integer :: iA(2)
    compelx :: cA(2)
    
    A = zeros(2,2)          !! [0.0,0.0; 0.0,0.0]
    A = ones(4,4)           !! [1.0,1.0,1.0,1.0; 1.0,1.0,1.0,1.0; 1.0,1.0,1.0,1.0; 1.0,1.0,1.0 1.0]
    A = 2.0*ones(2,2)       !! [2.0,2.0; 2.0,2.0]

    iA = ones(2)            !! [1,1]
    cA = ones(2)            !! [(1.0,0.0),(1.0,0.0)]
    cA = (1.0,1.0)*ones(2)  !! [(1.0,1.0),(1.0,1.0)]

> end program demo

Reviewer 3: It would be good to have a non-square matrix as one of the example.

```

## `expand` - Create an vector or matrix of `integer/logical/real/complex/string_type` type, given shape and given `value` value.

### Status

Experimental

### Class

Pure function.

### Description

> `expand` creates an vector or matrix of `integer/logical/real/complex/string_type` type, given shape and given `value` value.

Author: sorry, `an` -> `a`
```suggestion
`expand` creates a vector or matrix of `integer/logical/real/complex/string_type` type, given shape and given `value` value.
```

    !A = reshape([3., 6., 9., 4., 8., 12.], [3,2])
end program demo_outer_product
```

## `zeros/ones` - Create a `vector` or `matrix` of the given shape, filled completely with either `0` or `1` `integer [/real/complex]` type values

### Status

Experimental

### Class

Pure function.

### Description

`zeros` creates a `vector` or `matrix` of the given shape, filled completely with `0` `integer [/real/complex]` type values.  
`ones` creates a `vector` or `matrix` of the given shape, filled completely with `1` `integer [/real/complex]` type values.

### Syntax

For vector:  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):zeros(interface)]](dim)`  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):ones(interface)]](dim)`

For matrix:  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):zeros(interface)]](dim1, dim2)`  
`result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):ones(interface)]](dim1, dim2)`

### Arguments

`dim/dim1`: Shall be an `integer` type.
This is an `intent(in)` argument.

`dim2`: Shall be an `integer` type.
This is an `intent(in)` argument.

#### Note

Because of `huge(integer :: i) == 2147483647`, the dimensional maximum length of array created by the `zeros/ones` function is `2147483647`. 

### Return value

> Return a `vector` or `matrix` of the given shape, filled completely with either `0` or `1` `integer [/real/complex]` type values.

Author: Thanks, you are right, I will remove them.😉

```fortran
real :: A(:,:)

!> Be careful
A = ones(2,2)/2     !! A = 1/2 = 0.0

!> Recommend
A = ones(2,2)/2.0   !! A = 1/2.0 = 0.5
A = expand(0.5, 2,2)
```

### Example

```fortran
program demo
    use stdlib_linalg, only: zeros, ones
    implicit none
    real, allocatable :: A(:,:)
    integer :: iA(2)
    compelx :: cA(2), cB(2,3)
    
    A = zeros(2,2)          !! [0.0,0.0; 0.0,0.0]
    A = ones(4,4)           !! [1.0,1.0,1.0,1.0; 1.0,1.0,1.0,1.0; 1.0,1.0,1.0,1.0; 1.0,1.0,1.0 1.0]
    A = 2.0*ones(2,2)       !! [2.0,2.0; 2.0,2.0]

    iA = ones(2)            !! [1,1]
    cA = ones(2)            !! [(1.0,0.0),(1.0,0.0)]
    cA = (1.0,1.0)*ones(2)  !! [(1.0,1.0),(1.0,1.0)]
    cB = ones(2,3)          !! [(1.0,0.0),(1.0,0.0),(1.0,0.0); (1.0,0.0),(1.0,0.0),(1.0,0.0)]

end program demo
```

## `expand` - Create a `vector` or `matrix` of the given shape, filled completely with `value` `integer/logical/real/complex/string_type` type values

### Status

Experimental

### Class

Pure function.

### Description

`expand` creates a `vector` or `matrix` of the given shape, filled completely with `value` `integer/logical/real/complex/string_type` type values.

### Syntax

For vector:  

> `result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):expand(interface)]](value, dim)`  

Reviewer 4: `expand` function for vector in vanilla form may not be necessary since we already have `spread` intrinsic function for the same results. However, it may be interesting to have a third optional logical vector mask with size of `dim`.

Author: Yes, I was thinking of removing `expand`. The mask scheme you mentioned seems to be impossible to implement in `Fortran`'s existing syntax. We can't arbitrarily set the dimensions of the returned array in Fortran. (see https://github.com/j3-fortran/fortran_proposals/issues/157)
```fortran
x = reshepe(ones(2*3*4), [2,3,4])  !! This use style will be written in doc later.
```

Reviewer 4: My suggest is like the following:
`function expand(value, dim, mask) result(res)`
`integer, intent(in) :: value, dim`
`logical, intent(in) :: mask(dim)`
`integer, allocatable :: res(:)`

`allocate(res(dim))`
`where(mask)`
`res = value`
`elsewhere`
`res = 0`
`end where`
`end function expand`

Author: It seems that `merge` may achieve this effect, for example:
```fortran
x = merge(1, 0, mask) !! `x` is consistent with the dimension information of the `mask` array.
```

For matrix:  

> `result = [[stdlib_linalg(module):expand(interface)]](value, dim1, dim2)`  

Reviewer 4: It may be interesting to have a third optional logical matrix mask with dimension of `dim1` and `dim2`.
